RHIDP-12595: Migrate RHDH UI features to New Frontend System (#2107)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/proc-prepare-your-application-to-add-custom-navigation-and-toolbar-items.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="prepare-your-application-to-add-custom-navigation-and-toolbar-items_{context}"]
= Prepare your application to add custom navigation and toolbar items

[role="_abstract"]
Install and integrate the global header plugin into your {product} application as a prerequisite for adding custom buttons, menus, and navigation shortcuts to the header.

.Procedure

. To enable custom navigation, install the global header plugin package.
+
[source,bash]
----
yarn --cwd packages/app add @red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header
----

. To register the global header, import the plugin and module in your `packages/app/src/App.tsx` file.
+
[source,typescript]
----
import { createApp } from '@backstage/frontend-defaults';
import globalHeaderPlugin, {
  globalHeaderModule,
} from '@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header/alpha';

export default createApp({
  features: [
    globalHeaderModule,

>     globalHeaderPlugin,

Reviewer: We also need `globalHeaderTranslationsModule` here to enable translation support. Also `globalHeaderPlugin` can be skipped if app-config has 
```yaml
app:
  packages: all
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="prepare-your-application-to-add-custom-navigation-and-toolbar-items_{context}"]
= Prepare your application to add custom navigation and toolbar items

[role="_abstract"]
Install and integrate the global header plugin into your {product} application as a prerequisite for adding custom buttons, menus, and navigation shortcuts to the header.

.Procedure

. To enable custom navigation, install the global header plugin package.
+
[source,bash]
----
yarn --cwd packages/app add @red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header
----

. To register the global header, import the plugin and modules in your `packages/app/src/App.tsx` file.
+
[source,typescript]
----
import { createApp } from '@backstage/frontend-defaults';
import globalHeaderPlugin, {
  globalHeaderModule,
  globalHeaderTranslationsModule,
} from '@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header/alpha';

export default createApp({
  features: [
    globalHeaderModule,
    globalHeaderTranslationsModule,  // Enables translation support
    globalHeaderPlugin,
  ],
});
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `globalHeaderPlugin` can be omitted if your `{my-app-config-file}` file includes the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can omit the `globalHeaderPlugin` if your `{my-app-config-file}` file includes the following configuration:
```
